feat: hmr integration (#95)
florian-lefebvre/astro-integration-kit: docs/src/content/docs/utilities/watch-directory.mdx

---
title: watchDirectory

> description: In development, will reload the Astro dev server if any files within the directory has changed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: In development, `watchDirectory` will reload the Astro dev server if any files within the directory change.
```

---

> In development, `watchDirectory` will reload the Astro dev server if any files within
> the directory has changed. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In development, `watchDirectory` will reload the Astro dev server if any files within
the directory change. For example:
```

```ts title="my-integration/index.ts" {4,14}
import {
	defineIntegration,
	createResolver,
	watchDirectory
} from "astro-integration-kit";

export default defineIntegration({
	// ...
	setup() {
		const { resolve } = createResolver(import.meta.url)

		return {
			"astro:config:setup": (params) => {
				watchDirectory(params, resolve())
			}
		}
	}
})
```

## Limitations

> Those are due to limitations in Astro core:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Due to limitations in Astro core there are a few limitations:
```

1. This utility only watches files (as deep as possible) under the specified directory

> 2. Directories under the specified directory are not taken into account

Reviewer 2: Isn't this contradicting the (as deep as possible) above?

> 1. This utility only watches files (as deep as possible) under the specified directory
> 2. Directories under the specified directory are not taken into account

Author: ```suggestion
1. This utility watches all files deeply under the specified directory
2. **Only files are considered**. Directories themselves are not watched (eg. an empty folder is deleted)
```
cc @Fryuni

> 3. Additions and deletions are not taken into account

Reviewer 2: I think deletions are considered. The point is that we call `addWatchFile` for each file, so any file that exists is watched and it should consider the file being deleted, but files that are added were not present when calling this function so they are not watched.

Author: Would you mind writing a suggestion?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Files added to the directory won't be detected until one of the old files is changed
```

> 3. Files added to the directory won't cause a reload and won't be watched for further changes until one of the old files is changed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Files added to the directory won't cause a reload and won't be watched for further changes until one of the old files is changed or the dev server is restarted
```
